add tutorials for cross encoder models on Amazon Bedrock (#3278)
opensearch-project/ml-commons: docs/tutorials/rerank/rerank_pipeline_with_Amazon_Rerank_model_on_Amazon_Bedrock.md

# Topic

[Reranking pipeline](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/search-relevance/reranking-search-results/) is a feature released in OpenSearch 2.12.

> It can rerank search results, providing a relevance score for each document in the search results with respect to the search query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can rerank search results, providing a relevance score with respect to the search query for each matching document.
```

Author: Thanks, I'm going to merge your recommendation on next commit.

Author: fixed on 9482b472b2bc68bba61267c87f484967362e2c5b

The relevance score is calculated by a cross-encoder model. 

> This tutorial explains how to use the [Amazon Rerank 1.0 model in Amazon Bedrock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/rerank-supported.html) in a reranking pipeline. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial illustrates using the [Amazon Rerank 1.0 model in Amazon Bedrock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/rerank-supported.html) in a reranking pipeline. 
```

Author: Thanks, I'm going to merge your recommendation on next commit.

Author: fixed on 9482b472b2bc68bba61267c87f484967362e2c5b

Note: Replace the placeholders that start with `your_` with your own values.

# Steps

## 0. Test the model on Amazon Bedrock

> You can perform a reranking test with the following code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can perform a reranking test using the following code:
```

Author: Thanks, I'm going to merge your recommendation on next commit.

Author: fixed on 9482b472b2bc68bba61267c87f484967362e2c5b

```python
import json
import boto3
bedrock_region = "your_bedrock_model_region_like_us-west-2"
bedrock_runtime_client = boto3.client("bedrock-runtime", region_name=bedrock_region)

modelId = "amazon.rerank-v1:0"
contentType = "application/json"
accept = "*/*"

body = json.dumps({
    "query": "What is the capital city of America?",
    "documents": [
        "Carson City is the capital city of the American state of Nevada.",
        "The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is a group of islands in the Pacific Ocean. Its capital is Saipan.",
        "Washington, D.C. (also known as simply Washington or D.C., and officially as the District of Columbia) is the capital of the United States. It is a federal district.",
        "Capital punishment (the death penalty) has existed in the United States since beforethe United States was a country. As of 2017, capital punishment is legal in 30 of the 50 states."
    ]
})

response = bedrock_runtime_client.invoke_model(
    modelId=modelId,
    contentType=contentType,
    accept=accept, 
    body=body
)
results = json.loads(response.get('body').read())["results"]

> print(json.dumps(sorted(results, key=lambda x: x['index']),indent=2))

Reviewer 2: How about just print the model response directly? Adding `sorted` may confuse user as this is some processed resposne.

Reviewer 2: ```
print(json.dumps(results, indent=2))
```
Response
```
[
  {
    "index": 2,
    "relevance_score": 0.7711548724998493
  },
  {
    "index": 0,
    "relevance_score": 0.0025114635138098534
  },
  {
    "index": 1,
    "relevance_score": 2.4876490010363496e-05
  },
  {
    "index": 3,
    "relevance_score": 6.339210403977635e-06
  }
]
```

Author: Thanks, I'm going to updated based on your recommendation on next commit.

Author: fixed on 9482b472b2bc68bba61267c87f484967362e2c5b

```

The reranking results are as follows:

```
[
  {
    "index": 0,
    "relevance_score": 0.0025114635138098534
  },
  {
    "index": 1,
    "relevance_score": 2.4876490010363496e-05
  },
  {
    "index": 2,
    "relevance_score": 0.7711548724998493
  },
  {
    "index": 3,
    "relevance_score": 6.339210403977635e-06
  }

> ]

Reviewer 3: Hey Mingshi, looks like the contributor is using bedrock, There isn't a deployment happening its just invoking their models.

```

## 1. Create a connector and register the model

To create a connector for the model, send the following request. If you are using self-managed OpenSearch, supply your AWS credentials:
```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/connectors/_create
{
  "name": "Amazon Bedrock cross-encoder model",
  "description": "Test connector for Amazon Bedrock cross-encoder model",
  "version": 1,
  "protocol": "aws_sigv4",
  "credential": {
    "access_key": "your_access_key",
    "secret_key": "your_secret_key",
    "session_token": "your_session_token"
  },
  "parameters": {
    "region": "your_bedrock_model_region_like_us-west-2",
    "service_name": "bedrock"
  },
  "actions": [
    {
      "action_type": "predict",
      "method": "POST",

>       "url": "https://bedrock-runtime.${parameters.region}.amazonaws.com/model/amazon.rerank-v1:0/invoke",

Reviewer 3: I think we can can improve this slightly I notice you are using the **amazon.rerank-v1:0** model it can be easy to miss that instead how about we extract that into the parameters i.e.
```json
  "parameters": {
    "region": "your_bedrock_model_region_like_us-west-2",
    "service_name": "bedrock",
    "model" : "amazon.rerank-v1:0"
  },
....
  "url": "https://bedrock-runtime.${parameters.region}.amazonaws.com/model/{parameters.model}/invoke",
```

Author: Thanks, I'm going to update based on your recommendation on next commit.

      "headers": {
        "x-amz-content-sha256": "required",
        "content-type": "application/json"
      },
      "pre_process_function": """

>         def query_text = params.query_text;

Reviewer 4: What do you think about raising a PR for pre & post processor functions for Bedrock rerank model like [these](https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/tree/main/common/src/main/java/org/opensearch/ml/common/connector/functions). 

In that way, customer can just mention the name of the pre/post process function rather than writing painless script in the connector payload.

Author: I think built-in pre & post processor is good solution to reduce overhead and ease implementation. I've submitted issues for the topic.

#3254

I'm not familiar with code development, but I'm happy to contribute in this area.

Author: I'm going to implement built-in function in #3254  but please let me leave custom pre and post function as it is in this PR.

        def text_docs = params.text_docs;
        def textDocsBuilder = new StringBuilder('[');
        for (int i=0; i<text_docs.length; i++) {

>           textDocsBuilder.append('\"');

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          textDocsBuilder.append('"');
```

Author: I'm going to remove unnecessary escape character and test again on my side.

Author: fixed on 9482b472b2bc68bba61267c87f484967362e2c5b

          textDocsBuilder.append(text_docs[i]);

>           textDocsBuilder.append('\"');

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          textDocsBuilder.append('"');
```

Author: I'm going to remove unnecessary escape character and test again on my side.

Author: fixed on 9482b472b2bc68bba61267c87f484967362e2c5b

          if (i<text_docs.length - 1) {
            textDocsBuilder.append(',');
          }
        }
        textDocsBuilder.append(']');

>         def parameters = '{ \"query\": \"' + query_text + '\",  \"documents\": ' + textDocsBuilder.toString() + ' }';

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        def parameters = '{ "query": "' + query_text + '",  "documents": ' + textDocsBuilder.toString() + ' }';
```

Author: I'm going to remove unnecessary escape character and test again on my side.

Author: fixed on 9482b472b2bc68bba61267c87f484967362e2c5b

>         return  '{\"parameters\": ' + parameters + '}';

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        return  '{"parameters": ' + parameters + '}';
```

Author: I'm going to remove unnecessary escape character and test again on my side.

Author: fixed on 9482b472b2bc68bba61267c87f484967362e2c5b

      """,
      "request_body": "{ \"query\": \"${parameters.query}\", \"documents\": ${parameters.documents} }",
      "post_process_function": """

>         if (params.result == null || params.result.length > 0) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        if (params.results == null || params.results.length == 0) {
```

Author: I'm going to remove unnecessary escape character and test again on my side.

Author: fixed on 9482b472b2bc68bba61267c87f484967362e2c5b

          throw new IllegalArgumentException("Post process function input is empty.");
        }
        def outputs = params.results;
        def relevance_scores = new Double[outputs.length];
        for (int i=0; i<outputs.length; i++) {
          def index = new BigDecimal(outputs[i].index.toString()).intValue();
          relevance_scores[index] = outputs[i].relevance_score;
        }
        def resultBuilder = new StringBuilder('[');

>         for (int i=0; i<relevance_scores.length; i++) {
>           resultBuilder.append(' {\"name\": \"similarity\", \"data_type\": \"FLOAT32\", \"shape\": [1],');
>           resultBuilder.append('\"data\": [');
>           resultBuilder.append(relevance_scores[i]);
>           resultBuilder.append(']}');
>           if (i<outputs.length - 1) {
>             resultBuilder.append(',');
>           }
>         }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        for (int i=0; i<relevance_scores.length; i++) {
          resultBuilder.append(' {"name": "similarity", "data_type": "FLOAT32", "shape": [1],');
          resultBuilder.append('"data": [');
          resultBuilder.append(relevance_scores[i]);
          resultBuilder.append(']}');
          if (i<outputs.length - 1) {
            resultBuilder.append(',');
          }
        }
```

Author: I'm going to remove unnecessary escape character and test again on my side.

Author: fixed on https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/commit/9482b472b2bc68bba61267c87f484967362e2c5b

        resultBuilder.append(']');
        return resultBuilder.toString();
      """
    }
  ]
}
```

> If using the Amazon Opensearch Service, you can provide an IAM role arn that allows access to the bedrock service. Refer to this [AWS doc](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/ml-amazon-connector.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using the Amazon Opensearch Service, you can provide an IAM role ARN that allows access to the Amazon Bedrock service. For more information, see [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/ml-amazon-connector.html):
```

Author: I'll update the sentence based on your recommendation

Author: fixed on 9482b472b2bc68bba61267c87f484967362e2c5b

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/connectors/_create
{
  "name": "Amazon Bedrock cross-encoder model",
  "description": "Test connector for Amazon Bedrock cross-encoder model",
  "version": 1,
  "protocol": "aws_sigv4",
  "credential": {
    "roleArn": "your_role_arn_which_allows_access_to_bedrock_model"
  },
  "parameters": {
    "region": "your_bedrock_model_region_like_us-west-2",
    "service_name": "bedrock"
  },
  "actions": [
    {
      "action_type": "predict",
      "method": "POST",

>       "url": "https://bedrock-runtime.${parameters.region}.amazonaws.com/model/amazon.rerank-v1:0/invoke",

Reviewer 3: Similar feedback like before :)

Author: fixed on 9482b472b2bc68bba61267c87f484967362e2c5b

        for (int i=0; i<outputs.length; i++) {
          def index = new BigDecimal(outputs[i].index.toString()).intValue();
          relevance_scores[index] = outputs[i].relevance_score;
        }
        def resultBuilder = new StringBuilder('[');
        for (int i=0; i<relevance_scores.length; i++) {
          resultBuilder.append(' {\"name\": \"similarity\", \"data_type\": \"FLOAT32\", \"shape\": [1],');
          resultBuilder.append('\"data\": [');
          resultBuilder.append(relevance_scores[i]);
          resultBuilder.append(']}');
          if (i<outputs.length - 1) {
            resultBuilder.append(',');
          }
        }
        resultBuilder.append(']');
        return resultBuilder.toString();
      """
    }
  ]
}
```

Use the connector ID from the response to register and deploy the model:
```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register?deploy=true
{
    "name": "Bedrock Cross-Encoder model",
    "function_name": "remote",
    "description": "test rerank model",
    "connector_id": "your_connector_id"
}
```
Note the model ID in the response; you'll use it in the following steps.

Test the model by using the Predict API:
```json

> POST _plugins/_ml/models/your_model_id/_predict

Reviewer 2: Please make sure every step in the tutorial works. I tested and this step failed
```
{
  "error": {
    "root_cause": [
      {
        "type": "script_exception",
        "reason": "compile error",
        "script_stack": [
          "...     resultBuilder.append(' {\\\"name\\\": \\\"similarity ...",
          "                             ^---- HERE"
        ],
        "script": "\n        if (params.result == null || params.result.length > 0) {\n          throw new IllegalArgumentException(\"Post process function input is empty.\");\n        }\n        def outputs = params.results;\n        def relevance_scores = new Double[outputs.length];\n        for (int i=0; i<outputs.length; i++) {\n          def index = new BigDecimal(outputs[i].index.toString()).intValue();\n          relevance_scores[index] = outputs[i].relevance_score;\n        }\n        def resultBuilder = new StringBuilder('[');\n        for (int i=0; i<relevance_scores.length; i++) {\n          resultBuilder.append(' {\\\"name\\\": \\\"similarity\\\", \\\"data_type\\\": \\\"FLOAT32\\\", \\\"shape\\\": [1],');\n          resultBuilder.append('\\\"data\\\": [');\n          resultBuilder.append(relevance_scores[i]);\n          resultBuilder.append(']}');\n          if (i<outputs.length - 1) {\n            resultBuilder.append(',');\n          }\n        }\n        resultBuilder.append(']');\n        return resultBuilder.toString();\n      ",
        "lang": "painless",
        "position": {
          "offset": 598,
          "start": 573,
          "end": 623
        }
      }
    ],
    "type": "m_l_exception",
    "reason": "m_l_exception: Fail to execute PREDICT in aws connector",
    "caused_by": {
      "type": "script_exception",
      "reason": "compile error",
      "script_stack": [
        "...     resultBuilder.append(' {\\\"name\\\": \\\"similarity ...",
        "                             ^---- HERE"
      ],
      "script": "\n        if (params.result == null || params.result.length > 0) {\n          throw new IllegalArgumentException(\"Post process function input is empty.\");\n        }\n        def outputs = params.results;\n        def relevance_scores = new Double[outputs.length];\n        for (int i=0; i<outputs.length; i++) {\n          def index = new BigDecimal(outputs[i].index.toString()).intValue();\n          relevance_scores[index] = outputs[i].relevance_score;\n        }\n        def resultBuilder = new StringBuilder('[');\n        for (int i=0; i<relevance_scores.length; i++) {\n          resultBuilder.append(' {\\\"name\\\": \\\"similarity\\\", \\\"data_type\\\": \\\"FLOAT32\\\", \\\"shape\\\": [1],');\n          resultBuilder.append('\\\"data\\\": [');\n          resultBuilder.append(relevance_scores[i]);\n          resultBuilder.append(']}');\n          if (i<outputs.length - 1) {\n            resultBuilder.append(',');\n          }\n        }\n        resultBuilder.append(']');\n        return resultBuilder.toString();\n      ",
      "lang": "painless",
      "position": {
        "offset": 598,
        "start": 573,
        "end": 623
      },
      "caused_by": {
        "type": "illegal_argument_exception",
        "reason": "unexpected character [' {\\\"]. The only valid escape sequences in strings starting with ['] are [\\\\] and [\\'].",
        "caused_by": {
          "type": "lexer_no_viable_alt_exception",
          "reason": "lexer_no_viable_alt_exception: null"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "status": 500
}
```

Author: I'm going to remove unnecessary escape character and test again on my side.

Author: fixed on 9482b472b2bc68bba61267c87f484967362e2c5b

{
  "parameters": {
    "query": "What is the capital city of America?",
    "texts": [
      "Carson City is the capital city of the American state of Nevada.",
      "The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is a group of islands in the Pacific Ocean. Its capital is Saipan.",
      "Washington, D.C. (also known as simply Washington or D.C., and officially as the District of Columbia) is the capital of the United States. It is a federal district.",
      "Capital punishment (the death penalty) has existed in the United States since beforethe United States was a country. As of 2017, capital punishment is legal in 30 of the 50 states."
    ]
  }
}
```

> Each item in the array comprises a query_text and a text_docs string, separated by a .

Reviewer: This sentence is incomplete. Separated by what?
```suggestion
Each item in the array comprises a `query_text` and a `text_docs` string, separated by a .
```

Author: " separated by a `,` ." is correct sentence. I'm going to fix it.

Author: fixed on 9482b472b2bc68bba61267c87f484967362e2c5b

Alternatively, you can test the model as follows:
```json
POST _plugins/_ml/_predict/text_similarity/your_model_id
{
  "query_text": "What is the capital city of America?",
  "text_docs": [
    "Carson City is the capital city of the American state of Nevada.",
    "The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is a group of islands in the Pacific Ocean. Its capital is Saipan.",
    "Washington, D.C. (also known as simply Washington or D.C., and officially as the District of Columbia) is the capital of the United States. It is a federal district.",
    "Capital punishment (the death penalty) has existed in the United States since beforethe United States was a country. As of 2017, capital punishment is legal in 30 of the 50 states."
  ]
}
```

> The connector `pre_process_function` transforms the input into the format required by parameters shown previously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The connector `pre_process_function` transforms the input into the format required by the previously shown parameters.
```

Author: I'm going to apply your recommendation.

> By default, Amazon Bedrock Rerank API output has the following format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the Amazon Bedrock Rerank API output has the following format:
```

Author: fixed on 9482b472b2bc68bba61267c87f484967362e2c5b

```json
[
  {
    "index": 0,
    "relevance_score": 0.0025114635138098534
  },
  {
    "index": 1,
    "relevance_score": 2.4876490010363496e-05
  },
  {
    "index": 2,
    "relevance_score": 0.7711548724998493
  },
  {
    "index": 3,
    "relevance_score": 6.339210403977635e-06
  }
]
```

> The connector `post_process_function` transforms the model's output into a format that the [Reranker processor](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/search-pipelines/rerank-processor/) can interpret, and orders result by index. This adapted format is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The connector `post_process_function` transforms the model's output into a format that the [Reranker processor](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/search-pipelines/rerank-processor/) can interpret, and orders the results by index. This adapted format is as follows:
```

Author: I'm going to apply your recommendation.

Author: fixed on 9482b472b2bc68bba61267c87f484967362e2c5b

```json
{
  "inference_results": [
    {
      "output": [
        {
          "name": "similarity",
          "data_type": "FLOAT32",
          "shape": [
            1
          ],
          "data": [
            0.0025114636
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "similarity",
          "data_type": "FLOAT32",
          "shape": [
            1
          ],
          "data": [
            2.487649e-05
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "similarity",
          "data_type": "FLOAT32",
          "shape": [
            1
          ],
          "data": [
            0.7711549
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "similarity",
          "data_type": "FLOAT32",
          "shape": [
            1
          ],
          "data": [
            6.3392104e-06
          ]
        }
      ],
      "status_code": 200
    }
  ]
}
```

Explanation of the response:
1. The response contains two `similarity` outputs. For each `similarity` output, the `data` array contains a relevance score of each document against the query.

> 2. The `similarity` outputs are provided in the order of the input documents; the first result of similarity pertains to the first document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The `similarity` outputs are provided in the order of the input documents; the first similarity result pertains to the first document.
```

Author: I'm going to apply your recommendation.

Author: fixed on 9482b472b2bc68bba61267c87f484967362e2c5b

{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is a group of islands in the Pacific Ocean. Its capital is Saipan." }
{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "Washington, D.C. (also known as simply Washington or D.C., and officially as the District of Columbia) is the capital of the United States. It is a federal district." }
{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "Capital punishment (the death penalty) has existed in the United States since beforethe United States was a country. As of 2017, capital punishment is legal in 30 of the 50 states." }

```
### 2.2 Create a reranking pipeline
```json
PUT /_search/pipeline/rerank_pipeline_sagemaker
{
    "description": "Pipeline for reranking with Sagemaker cross-encoder model",
    "response_processors": [
        {
            "rerank": {
                "ml_opensearch": {
                    "model_id": "your_model_id_created_in_step1"
                },
                "context": {
                    "document_fields": ["passage_text"]
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

> Note: if you provide multiple filed names in `document_fields`, the values of all fields are first concatenated and then reranking is performed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: if you provide multiple file names in `document_fields`, the values of all fields are first concatenated and then reranking is performed.
```

Author: filed is typo. field is correct. I'm going to fix.

Author: fixed on 9482b472b2bc68bba61267c87f484967362e2c5b

        "highlight": {
          "passage_text": [
            "<strong>The</strong> Commonwealth <strong>of</strong> <strong>the</strong> Northern Mariana Islands <strong>is</strong> a group <strong>of</strong> islands in <strong>the</strong> Pacific Ocean.",
            "Its <strong>capital</strong> <strong>is</strong> Saipan."
          ]
        }
      },
      {
        "_index": "my-test-data",
        "_id": "4",
        "_score": 6.3392104e-06,
        "fields": {
          "passage_text": [
            "Capital punishment (the death penalty) has existed in the United States since beforethe United States was a country. As of 2017, capital punishment is legal in 30 of the 50 states."
          ]
        },
        "highlight": {
          "passage_text": [
            "<strong>Capital</strong> punishment (<strong>the</strong> death penalty) has existed in <strong>the</strong> United States since beforethe United States",
            "As <strong>of</strong> 2017, <strong>capital</strong> punishment <strong>is</strong> legal in 30 <strong>of</strong> <strong>the</strong> 50 states."
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  },
  "profile": {
    "shards": []
  }
}
```

> Note: You can avoid writing the query twice by using query_text_path instead of query_text, as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: You can avoid writing the query twice by using the `query_text_path` instead of `query_text` as follows:
```

Author: I'm going to apply your recoomendation.

    contentType=contentType,
    accept=accept, 
    body=body
)
results = json.loads(response.get('body').read())["results"]
print(json.dumps(results, indent=2))
```

The reranking result is ordering by the highest score first:
```
[
  {
    "index": 2,
    "relevance_score": 0.7711548724998493
  },
  {
    "index": 0,
    "relevance_score": 0.0025114635138098534
  },
  {
    "index": 1,
    "relevance_score": 2.4876490010363496e-05
  },
  {
    "index": 3,
    "relevance_score": 6.339210403977635e-06
  }
]
```

You can sort the result by index number.

```python
print(json.dumps(sorted(results, key=lambda x: x['index']),indent=2))
```

The results are as follows:
```
[
  {
    "index": 0,
    "relevance_score": 0.0025114635138098534
  },
  {
    "index": 1,
    "relevance_score": 2.4876490010363496e-05
  },
  {
    "index": 2,
    "relevance_score": 0.7711548724998493
  },
  {
    "index": 3,
    "relevance_score": 6.339210403977635e-06
  }
]
```

## 1. Create a connector and register the model

To create a connector for the model, send the following request. If you are using self-managed OpenSearch, supply your AWS credentials:
```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/connectors/_create
{

>   "name": "Amazon Bedrock cross-encoder model",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  "name": "Amazon Bedrock rerank model",
```

Reviewer 2: cross-encoder is more technical , suggest change to `rerank` to avoid confusion to user who don't have knowledge about cross-encoder
```
"model_name": "amazon.rerank-v1:0"
```

>   "description": "Test connector for Amazon Bedrock cross-encoder model",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  "description": "Test connector for Amazon Bedrock rerank model",
```

  "version": 1,
  "protocol": "aws_sigv4",
  "credential": {
    "access_key": "your_access_key",
    "secret_key": "your_secret_key",
    "session_token": "your_session_token"
  },
  "parameters": {
    "service_name": "bedrock",

>     "service_code": "bedrock-runtime",

Reviewer 2: `service_code` looks confusing, how about change to `endpoint`
Check  https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/APIReference/welcome.html

> Amazon Bedrock provides the following service endpoints.

> - bedrock – Contains control plane APIs for managing, training, and deploying models. For more information, see [Amazon Bedrock Actions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/APIReference/API_Operations_Amazon_Bedrock.html) and [Amazon Bedrock Data Types](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/APIReference/API_Types_Amazon_Bedrock.html).

> - bedrock-runtime – Contains data plane APIs for making inference requests for models hosted in Amazon Bedrock. For more information, see [Amazon Bedrock Runtime Actions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/APIReference/API_Operations_Amazon_Bedrock_Runtime.html) and [Amazon Bedrock Runtime Data Types](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/APIReference/API_Types_Amazon_Bedrock_Runtime.html).

>     "service_code": "bedrock-runtime",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "endpoint": "bedrock-runtime",
```

    "region": "your_bedrock_model_region_like_us",
    "model_name": "amazon.rerank-v1:0" 
  },
  "actions": [
    {
      "action_type": "PREDICT",
      "method": "POST",

>       "url": "https://${parameters.service_code}.${parameters.region}.amazonaws.com/model/${parameters.model_name}/invoke",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      "url": "https://${parameters. endpoint}.${parameters.region}.amazonaws.com/model/${parameters.model_name}/invoke",
```

        }
        def outputs = params.results;
        def relevance_scores = new Double[outputs.length];
        for (int i=0; i<outputs.length; i++) {
          def index = new BigDecimal(outputs[i].index.toString()).intValue();
          relevance_scores[index] = outputs[i].relevance_score;
        }
        def resultBuilder = new StringBuilder('[');
        for (int i=0; i<relevance_scores.length; i++) {
          resultBuilder.append(' {"name": "similarity", "data_type": "FLOAT32", "shape": [1],');
          resultBuilder.append('"data": [');
          resultBuilder.append(relevance_scores[i]);
          resultBuilder.append(']}');
          if (i<outputs.length - 1) {
            resultBuilder.append(',');
          }
        }
        resultBuilder.append(']');
        return resultBuilder.toString();
      """
    }
  ]
}
```

If using the Amazon Opensearch Service, you can provide an IAM role ARN that allows access to the Amazon Bedrock service. For more information, see [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/ml-amazon-connector.html):

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/connectors/_create
{

>   "name": "Amazon Bedrock cross-encoder model",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  "name": "Amazon Bedrock rerank model",
```

>   "description": "Test connector for Amazon Bedrock cross-encoder model",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  "description": "Test connector for Amazon Bedrock rerank model",
```

  "version": 1,
  "protocol": "aws_sigv4",
  "credential": {
    "roleArn": "your_role_arn_which_allows_access_to_bedrock_model"
  },
  "parameters": {
    "service_name": "bedrock",

>     "service_code": "bedrock-runtime",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "endpoint": "bedrock-runtime",
```

>     "region": "your_bedrock_model_region_like_us",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "region": "your_bedrock_model_region_like_us-west-2",
```

    "model_name": "amazon.rerank-v1:0" 
  },
  "actions": [
    {
      "action_type": "PREDICT",
      "method": "POST",

>       "url": "https://${parameters.service_code}.${parameters.region}.amazonaws.com/model/${parameters.model_name}/invoke",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      "url": "https://${parameters.endpoint}.${parameters.region}.amazonaws.com/model/${parameters.model_name}/invoke",
```

        }
        """,
      "post_process_function": """
        if (params.results == null || params.results.length == 0) {
          throw new IllegalArgumentException("Post process function input is empty.");
        }
        def outputs = params.results;
        def relevance_scores = new Double[outputs.length];
        for (int i=0; i<outputs.length; i++) {
          def index = new BigDecimal(outputs[i].index.toString()).intValue();
          relevance_scores[index] = outputs[i].relevance_score;
        }
        def resultBuilder = new StringBuilder('[');
        for (int i=0; i<relevance_scores.length; i++) {
          resultBuilder.append(' {"name": "similarity", "data_type": "FLOAT32", "shape": [1],');
          resultBuilder.append('"data": [');
          resultBuilder.append(relevance_scores[i]);
          resultBuilder.append(']}');
          if (i<outputs.length - 1) {
            resultBuilder.append(',');
          }
        }
        resultBuilder.append(']');
        return resultBuilder.toString();
      """
    }
  ]
}
```

Use the connector ID from the response to register and deploy the model:
```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register?deploy=true
{

>     "name": "Amazon Bedrock Cross-Encoder model",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "name": "Amazon Bedrock rerank model",
```

    "function_name": "remote",
    "description": "test rerank model",
    "connector_id": "your_connector_id"
}
```
Note the model ID in the response; you'll use it in the following steps.

Test the model by using the Predict API:
```json
POST _plugins/_ml/models/your_model_id/_predict
{
  "parameters": {
    "query": "What is the capital city of America?",

>     "texts": [

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "documents": [
```

2. The `similarity` outputs are provided in the order of the input documents; the first similarity result pertains to the first document.

## 2. Reranking pipeline
### 2.1 Ingest test data
```json
POST _bulk
{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "Carson City is the capital city of the American state of Nevada." }
{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is a group of islands in the Pacific Ocean. Its capital is Saipan." }
{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "Washington, D.C. (also known as simply Washington or D.C., and officially as the District of Columbia) is the capital of the United States. It is a federal district." }
{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "Capital punishment (the death penalty) has existed in the United States since beforethe United States was a country. As of 2017, capital punishment is legal in 30 of the 50 states." }

```
### 2.2 Create a reranking pipeline
```json
PUT /_search/pipeline/rerank_pipeline_bedrock
{

>     "description": "Pipeline for reranking with Bedrock cross-encoder model",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "description": "Pipeline for reranking with Bedrock rerank model",
```

      """
    }
  ]
}
```

Use the connector ID from the response to register and deploy the model:
```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register?deploy=true
{
    "name": "Amazon Bedrock Cross-Encoder model",
    "function_name": "remote",
    "description": "test rerank model",
    "connector_id": "your_connector_id"
}
```
Note the model ID in the response; you'll use it in the following steps.

Test the model by using the Predict API:
```json
POST _plugins/_ml/models/your_model_id/_predict
{
  "parameters": {
    "query": "What is the capital city of America?",
    "texts": [
      "Carson City is the capital city of the American state of Nevada.",
      "The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is a group of islands in the Pacific Ocean. Its capital is Saipan.",
      "Washington, D.C. (also known as simply Washington or D.C., and officially as the District of Columbia) is the capital of the United States. It is a federal district.",
      "Capital punishment (the death penalty) has existed in the United States since beforethe United States was a country. As of 2017, capital punishment is legal in 30 of the 50 states."
    ]
  }
}
```

> Each item in the array comprises a `query_text` and a `text_docs` string, separated by a  ` , `.

Reviewer 2: Move this to line 295, `query_text` and a `text_docs` string exist in the example of 
```
POST _plugins/_ml/_predict/text_similarity/your_model_id
```

Author: Thank you for your review. Please let me delete this note because it's bit inaccurate. Deleted comment on commit 0a549fb925eff6b1a9e95c955a31e12d149fcfb6

  }
]
```

The connector `post_process_function` transforms the model's output into a format that the [Reranker processor](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/search-pipelines/rerank-processor/) can interpret, and orders the results by index. This adapted format is as follows:
```json
{
  "inference_results": [
    {
      "output": [
        {
          "name": "similarity",
          "data_type": "FLOAT32",
          "shape": [
            1
          ],
          "data": [
            0.0025114636
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "similarity",
          "data_type": "FLOAT32",
          "shape": [
            1
          ],
          "data": [
            2.487649e-05
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "similarity",
          "data_type": "FLOAT32",
          "shape": [
            1
          ],
          "data": [
            0.7711549
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "similarity",
          "data_type": "FLOAT32",
          "shape": [
            1
          ],
          "data": [
            6.3392104e-06
          ]
        }
      ],
      "status_code": 200
    }
  ]
}
```

Explanation of the response:

> 1. The response contains two `similarity` outputs. For each `similarity` output, the `data` array contains a relevance score of each document against the query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The response contains 4 `similarity` outputs. For each `similarity` output, the `data` array contains a relevance score of each document against the query.
```

Author: Thank you for your review. Modified at commit 0a549fb925eff6b1a9e95c955a31e12d149fcfb6

Reviewer 5: _predict call doesn't work in the tutorial. "texts" param should be replaced with "documents" to match the request_body in the connector payload.

```
POST _plugins/_ml/models/your_model_id/_predict
{
"parameters": {
"query": "What is the capital city of America?",
**"texts":** [.     ### This should be "documents"
"Carson City is the capital city of the American state of Nevada.",
"The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is a group of islands in the Pacific Ocean. Its capital is Saipan.",
"Washington, D.C. (also known as simply Washington or D.C., and officially as the District of Columbia) is the capital of the United States. It is a federal district.",
"Capital punishment (the death penalty) has existed in the United States since beforethe United States was a country. As of 2017, capital punishment is legal in 30 of the 50 states."
]
}
}
```

2. The `similarity` outputs are provided in the order of the input documents; the first similarity result pertains to the first document.

## 2. Reranking pipeline
### 2.1 Ingest test data
```json
POST _bulk
{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "Carson City is the capital city of the American state of Nevada." }
{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is a group of islands in the Pacific Ocean. Its capital is Saipan." }
{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "Washington, D.C. (also known as simply Washington or D.C., and officially as the District of Columbia) is the capital of the United States. It is a federal district." }
{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "Capital punishment (the death penalty) has existed in the United States since beforethe United States was a country. As of 2017, capital punishment is legal in 30 of the 50 states." }

```
### 2.2 Create a reranking pipeline
```json

> PUT /_search/pipeline/rerank_pipeline_sagemaker

Reviewer 3: Why is written for Sagemaker here but the models are hosted on bedrock. Am I missing something?

Author: Thanks, fixed at https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/pull/3278/commits/a219218a1cbf5930bcc871be7d7016fc7058bb03
